FSA: Add Feedback Sentiment Analyzer to cross service examples (#5128)
awsdocs/aws-doc-sdk-examples: applications/feedback_sentiment_analyzer/SPECIFICATION.md

# FSA technical specification

This document contains the technical specifications for Feedback Sentiment Analyzer (FSA), a sample application that showcases AWS services and SDKs.

This document explains:

- Application inputs and outputs.
- Underlying AWS components and their configurations.
- Key cross-service integration details.

See the [README.md](README.md) for an introduction to FSA.

---
### Table of Contents

  * [Diagram](#diagram)
  * [User actions](#user-actions)
  * [Application behavior](#application-behavior)
  * [HTTP API specification](#http-api-specification)
  * [Step Function configuration](#step-function-configuration)
    + [State machine Lambda functions](#state-machine-lambda-functions)
      + [ExtractText](#extracttext)
      + [AnalyzeSentiment](#analyzesentiment)
      + [TranslateText](#translatetext)
      + [SynthesizeAudio](#synthesizeaudio)
  * [GetFeedback Lambda function](#getfeedback-lambda-function)

>   * [Processing S3 events with EventBridge](#processing-s3-events-with-eventbridge)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [Processing Amazon S3 events with EventBridge](#processing-s3-events-with-eventbridge)
```

  * [Managing items in DynamoDB](#managing-items-in-dynamodb)
  * [Other FSA material](#other-fsa-material)

---

> ## Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Relational diagram
```

> This diagram represents the relationships between key FSA components. 

Reviewer: Consider adding text to describe these relationships so that folks with different visual abilities can access this information, too.

![architecture2.png](architecture2.png)

---

## User actions

This application receives three inputs from the frontend.

> - authenticate user (uses `Cognito`)
> - load page (uses `DynamoDB:GetItems`)
> - upload image to S3 (`S3:PutObject`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Authenticate user (uses `Cognito`)
- Load page (uses `DynamoDB:GetItems`)
- Upload image to Amazon S3 (`S3:PutObject`)
```

## Application behavior

This application produces two outputs from the backend:

> - put new item in the database (uses `DynamoDB:PutItem`)
> - put new synthesized audio to S3 (uses `S3:PutObject`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Put new item in the database (uses `DynamoDB:PutItem`)
- Put new synthesized audio to Amazon S3 (uses `S3:PutObject`)
```

## User flow
The following list describes the happy path of a frontend user.

> 1. Authenticate via Amazon Cognito hosted UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Authenticate by using the Amazon Cognito hosted UI.
```

2. Upload an image with text in a non-English language.
3. Press the refresh button after a minute.
4. See the original image alongside a English translation and a play button.
5. Tap the play button and listen to the synthesized audio of the English translation.

---

## HTTP API specification

All the APIs are created by the CDK script. The endpoints are common to every language variation and do not need any additional implementation.

<details>
<summary><strong>PUT /api/media/{item}</strong></summary>
<br/>

> > Create or update an object in Amazon S3. Creating or updating an image file will trigger the Step Function.

Reviewer: Are we triggering the "Step Functions workflow" or the "Step Functions step"?

Author: Technically we're setting a state machine as the target of an EventBridge rule. I guess workflow makes the most sense?

<table>
<tr>
<th>parameters</th>
<th>request body</th>
<th>response body</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>item - the object key of the item to get</td>
<td>JavaScript [File](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/File) object</td>
<td>Empty</td>
</tr>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>GET /api/media/{item}</strong></summary>
<br/>

> Get an object from Amazon S3.

<table>
<tr>
<th>parameters</th>
<th>request body</th>
<th>response body</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>item - the object key of the item to get</td>
<td>Empty</td>
<td>Empty</td>
</tr>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>GET /api/feedback</strong></summary>
<br/>

> > Get the translated text, sentiment, and audio/image keys for an uploaded image. This data comes from Amazon DynamoDB. The database table is filled as a result of running the step function.

Reviewer: Are we running the "Step Functions workflow" or the "Step Functions step"?

Author: See above.

<table>
<tr>
<th>parameters</th>
<th>request body</th>
<th>response body</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Empty</td>
<td>Empty</td>
<td>
<pre>
{
  "feedback": [
    {
      "sentiment": "POSITIVE",
      "text": "I love this hotel!",
      "audioUrl": "PXL_20230710_182358532.jpg.mp3",
      "imageUrl": "PXL_20230710_182358532.jpg"
    }
  ]
}
</pre>
</td>  
</tr>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>GET /api/env</strong></summary>
<br/>

> > Get the environment variables required to connect to a Cognito hosted UI. The frontend calls this automatically to facilitate sign in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Get the environment variables required to connect to an Amazon Cognito hosted UI. The frontend calls this automatically to facilitate sign in.
```

<table>
<tr>
<th>parameters</th>
<th>request body</th>
<th>response body</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Empty</td>
<td>Empty</td>
<td>
<pre>
{
"COGNITO_SIGN_IN_URL": "https://...",
"COGNITO_SIGN_OUT_URL": "https://..."
}
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
</details>

> ## Step Function configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step Functions configuration
```

> When an image is created or updated in S3 media bucket, a Step Function state machine is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an image is created or updated in an S3 media bucket, a Step Functions state machine is triggered.
```

> This multi-state workflow is listed below in sequence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sequence of this multi-state workflow follows:
```

1. Start

> 2. [ExtractText](#ExtractText) - extracts text from an image
> 3. [AnalyzeSentiment](#AnalyzeSentiment) - detects text sentiment
> 4. `ContinueIfPositive` (skip to 7 if sentiment `NEGATIVE`)
> 5. [TranslateText](#TranslateText) - translates text to English
> 6. [SynthesizeAudio](#SynthesizeAudio) - synthesizes human-like audio from text
> 7. `DynamoDB:PutItem` (see [table config](#managing-items-in-dynamodb))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [ExtractText](#ExtractText) - Extracts text from an image
3. [AnalyzeSentiment](#AnalyzeSentiment) - Detects text sentiment
4. `ContinueIfPositive` (Skip to 7 if sentiment is `NEGATIVE`)
5. [TranslateText](#TranslateText) - Translates text to English
6. [SynthesizeAudio](#SynthesizeAudio) - Synthesizes human-like audio from text
7. `DynamoDB:PutItem` (See [table config](#managing-items-in-dynamodb))
```

8. Stop

> The below diagram depicts this sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram depicts this sequence.
```

![state-machine.png](state-machine.png)

## State machine Lambda functions

> See below for the required inputs and outputs of each Lambda function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following are the required inputs and outputs of each Lambda function.
```

### ExtractText

> Uses Amazon Textract's [DetectDocumentText](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/textract/latest/dg/API_DetectDocumentText.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses the Amazon Textract [DetectDocumentText](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/textract/latest/dg/API_DetectDocumentText.html)
```

Author: Sigh. Apologies. I just looked at it wrong.

method to extract text from an image and return a unified text representation.

#### **Input**

> Uses the data available on the [S3 event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/EventBridge.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses the data available on the [Amazon S3 event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/EventBridge.html).
```

For example:

```json
{
  "bucket": "my-s3-bucket",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "object": "foo/bar.png"
}
```

#### **Output**

> Returns a string representing the text extracted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a string representing the extracted text.
```

For example:

```
CET HÔTEL ÉTAIT SUPER
```
---
### AnalyzeSentiment

> Uses Amazon Comprehend's [DetectSentiment](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/comprehend/latest/APIReference/API_DetectSentiment.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses the Amazon Comprehend [DetectSentiment](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/comprehend/latest/APIReference/API_DetectSentiment.html)
```

method to detect sentiment (`POSITIVE`, `NEUTRAL`, `MIXED`, or `NEGATIVE`).

#### **Input**

Uses the data available on the [Lambda event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-event).

For example:

```json
{
  "source_text": "CET HÔTEL ÉTAIT SUPER",
  "region": "us-east-1"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns the guessed sentiment and language code.

For example:

```json
{
  "sentiment": "POSITIVE",
  "language_code": "fr-FR"
}
```
---
### TranslateText

> Uses Amazon Translate's [TranslateText](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/APIReference/API_TranslateText.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses the Amazon Translate [TranslateText](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/APIReference/API_TranslateText.html)
```

Author: Same here as above. Are we missing a word a the end?

method to translate text to English and return a string.

#### **Input**

Uses the data available on the [Lambda event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-event).

For example:

```json
{
    "source_language_code": "fr-FR",
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "extracted_text": "CET HÔTEL ÉTAIT SUPER"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns a string representing the translated text.

For example:

```
THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT
```
---
### SynthesizeAudio

> Uses Amazon Polly's [SynthesizeAudio](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/polly/latest/dg/API_SynthesizeSpeech.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses the Amazon Polly [SynthesizeAudio](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/polly/latest/dg/API_SynthesizeSpeech.html)
```

Author: Same as above.

Reviewer: Same as previous.

method to converts input text into life-like speech

#### **Input**

Uses the data available on the [Lambda event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-event).

For example:

```json
{
  "bucket": "my-s3-bucket",
  "translated_text": "THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "object": "comment.png"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns a string representing the key of the synthesized audio file.

For example:

```

> my-s3-bucket/audio.mp3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET/audio.mp3
```

> my-s3-bucket/audio.mp3

Reviewer: Here and elsewhere, recommend using DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET as the example bucket name.

```

---

## GetFeedback Lambda function

> Uses DynamoDB's [GetItem](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/APIReference/API_GetItem.html)
> method to get all records from [the table](#managing-items-in-dynamodb). Invoked by the frontend interace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uses the DynamoDB [GetItem](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/APIReference/API_GetItem.html)
method to get all records from [the table](#managing-items-in-dynamodb). Invoked by the frontend interface.
```

Author: GetItem action?

Reviewer: Same as previous, up to you whether to use "action" or "method," but currently says "method."

There is no input.

### **Output**

> Returns a JSON object with one property: `feedback`. `feedback` is an array of objects that contain 4 properties:
> - sentiment - "POSITIVE" | "NEGATIVE" | "NEUTRAL"
> - text - The original text translated to the destination language. (English by default)
> - audioUrl - The S3 object key for the synthesized audio file.
> - imageUrl - The original uploaded image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a JSON object with one property: `feedback`. `feedback` is an array of objects that contain four properties:
- sentiment - "POSITIVE" | "NEGATIVE" | "NEUTRAL"
- text - The original text translated to the destination language. (English by default.)
- audioUrl - The Amazon S3 object key for the synthesized audio file.
- imageUrl - The original uploaded image.
```

Author: Some lists are corrected to have ending punctuation and some are not. What are the guidelines here?

For example:

```json
{
  "feedback": [
    {
      "sentiment": "POSITIVE",
      "text": "THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT",
      "audioUrl": "PXL_20230710_182358532.jpg.mp3",
      "imageUrl": "PXL_20230710_182358532.jpg"
    }
  ]
}
```

---

> ## Processing S3 events with EventBridge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Processing Amazon S3 events with EventBridge
```

> This application relies on an [EventBridge rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-rules.html), which triggers the [Step Functions state machine](#step-function-configuration) when new images are uploaded to S3 by the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application relies on an [EventBridge rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-rules.html) to trigger the [Step Functions state machine](#step-function-configuration) when new images are uploaded to Amazon S3 by the frontend.
```

Specifically, the trigger is scoped to `ObjectCreated` events emitted by `my-s3-bucket`:

```json
{
  "source": ["aws.s3"],
  "detailType": ["Object Created"],
  "detail": {
    "bucket": {
      "name": ["<dynamic media bucket name>"]
    },
    "object": {
      "key": [{ "suffix": ".png" }, { "suffix": ".jpeg" }, { "suffix": ".jpg" }]
    }
  }
}
```

---

## Managing items in DynamoDB

> This application relies on an Amazon DynamoDB table using the schema detailed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application relies on an Amazon DynamoDB table using the following schema.
```

| key               | purpose                                   | attribute | value                  |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------- | --------- | ---------------------- |
| `comment_key`     | Key of the scanned image.                 | `S`       | S3 object key          |
| `source_text`     | Extracted text from image.                | `S`       | Extracted text         |

> | `sentiment`       | Comprehend sentiment score.               | `S`       | Comprehend JSON object |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sentiment`       | Amazon Comprehend sentiment score.               | `S`       | Amazon Comprehend JSON object |
```

> | `source_language` | The language detected from the Text.      | `S`       | Language code          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `source_language` | The language detected from the text.      | `S`       | Language code          |
```

| `translated_text` | English version of 'text'.                | `S`       | Translated text        |

> | `audio_key`       | Key of the audio file generated by Polly. | `S`       | S3 object key          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `audio_key`       | Key of the audio file generated by Amazon Polly. | `S`       | Amazon S3 object key          |
```

```json
{
  "source_language_code": "fr-FR",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "extracted_text": "CET HÔTEL ÉTAIT SUPER"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns a string representing the translated text.

For example:

```
THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT
```

---

### SynthesizeAudio

Uses the Amazon Polly [SynthesizeAudio](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/polly/latest/dg/API_SynthesizeSpeech.html)
method to convert input text into life-like speech.

#### **Input**

Uses the data available on the [Lambda event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-event).

For example:

```json
{
  "bucket": "DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET",
  "translated_text": "THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "object": "comment.png"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns a string representing the key of the synthesized audio file.

For example:

```
DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET/audio.mp3
```

---

## GetFeedback Lambda function

Uses the DynamoDB [GetItem](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/APIReference/API_GetItem.html)
method to get all records from [the table](#managing-items-in-dynamodb). Invoked by the frontend interface.

There is no input.

### **Output**

> Returns a JSON object with one property: `feedback`. `feedback` is an array of objects that contain four properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns a JSON object with one property: `feedback`. `feedback` is an array of objects that contains four properties:
```

5. Metadata is stored in Amazon DynamoDB. Audio files are stored in the same Amazon S3 bucket used in step 3.
6. Amazon API Gateway fetches the metadata from Amazon DynamoDB.

---

## User actions

This application receives three inputs from the frontend.

- Authenticate user (uses `Cognito`)
- Load page (uses `DynamoDB:GetItems`)
- Upload image to Amazon S3 (`S3:PutObject`)

## Application behavior

This application produces two outputs from the backend:

- Put new item in the database (uses `DynamoDB:PutItem`)
- Put new synthesized audio to Amazon S3 (uses `S3:PutObject`)

---

## HTTP API specification

All the APIs are created by the CDK script. The endpoints are common to every language variation and do not need any additional implementation.

<details>
<summary><strong>PUT /api/media/{item}</strong></summary>
<br/>

> Create or update an object in Amazon S3. Creating or updating an image file will trigger the Step Functions workflow.

<table>
<tr>
<th>parameters</th>
<th>request body</th>
<th>response body</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>item - the object key of the item to get</td>

> <td>JavaScript [File](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/File) object</td>

Reviewer 3: For some reason, the `File` link is rendering as the raw text instead of the link text with underlying URL.

Following are the required inputs and outputs of each Lambda function.

### ExtractText

Uses the Amazon Textract [DetectDocumentText](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/textract/latest/dg/API_DetectDocumentText.html)
method to extract text from an image and return a unified text representation.

#### **Input**

Uses the data available on the [Amazon S3 event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/EventBridge.html).

For example:

```json
{
  "bucket": "DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "object": "obj/ect.png"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns a string representing the extracted text.

For example:

```
CET HÔTEL ÉTAIT SUPER
```

---

### AnalyzeSentiment

Uses the Amazon Comprehend [DetectSentiment](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/comprehend/latest/APIReference/API_DetectSentiment.html)
method to detect sentiment (`POSITIVE`, `NEUTRAL`, `MIXED`, or `NEGATIVE`).

#### **Input**

Uses the data available on the [Lambda event object](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-event).

For example:

```json
{
  "source_text": "CET HÔTEL ÉTAIT SUPER",
  "region": "us-east-1"
}
```

#### **Output**

> Returns the guessed sentiment and language code.

Reviewer 3: guessed -> detected?

  "translated_text": "THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "object": "comment.png"
}
```

#### **Output**

Returns a string representing the key of the synthesized audio file.

For example:

```
DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET/audio.mp3
```

---

## GetFeedback Lambda function

Uses the DynamoDB [GetItem](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/APIReference/API_GetItem.html)
method to get all records from [the table](#managing-items-in-dynamodb). Invoked by the frontend interface.

There is no input.

### **Output**

Returns a JSON object with one property: `feedback`. `feedback` is an array of objects that contain four properties:

- sentiment - "POSITIVE" | "NEGATIVE" | "NEUTRAL"
- text - The original text translated to the destination language. (English by default)
- audioUrl - The Amazon S3 object key for the synthesized audio file.
- imageUrl - The original uploaded image.

For example:

```json
{
  "feedback": [
    {
      "sentiment": "POSITIVE",
      "text": "THIS HOTEL WAS GREAT",
      "audioUrl": "PXL_20230710_182358532.jpg.mp3",
      "imageUrl": "PXL_20230710_182358532.jpg"
    }
  ]
}
```

---

## Processing Amazon S3 events with EventBridge

> This application relies on an [EventBridge rule](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-rules.html) to trigger the [Step Functions state machine](#step-function-configuration) when new images are uploaded to Amazon S3 by the frontend.

Reviewer 3: Step functions bookmark is broken.

| key               | purpose                                          | attribute | value                         |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ----------------------------- |
| `comment_key`     | Key of the scanned image.                        | `S`       | S3 object key                 |
| `source_text`     | Extracted text from image.                       | `S`       | Extracted text                |
| `sentiment`       | Amazon Comprehend sentiment score.               | `S`       | Amazon Comprehend JSON object |
| `source_language` | The language detected from the text.             | `S`       | Language code                 |
| `translated_text` | English version of 'text'.                       | `S`       | Translated text               |
| `audio_key`       | Key of the audio file generated by Amazon Polly. | `S`       | Amazon S3 object key          |

---

# Other FSA material

If technical details are not what you seek, try these instead:

- [High-level summary](README.md)
- [Deployment and development instructions](DEVELOPMENT.md)

> - [Opinionated architecture overview](DESIGN.md)

Reviewer 3: Links to 404.
